---
title:
---
*In memory of Constans II, Byzantine Emperor, assassinated in his bath
with a bucket.*

*\*\*\**

“You want me to assassinate the Earl of Shadworth Castle - with a
*bucket*.”

“Yes.”

“When over the past year, we’ve learnt everything there is to know about
knives, poisons, nerve gases, martial arts, sniper rifles - you want me
to use a *bucket*.”

“That’s right!”

“Sir, pardon, but would you mind explaining to me again, *slowly*, why
I’m doing this?”

“One of the most ephemeral skills that an assassin needs is creativity.
Sure, we’ve taught you all the *standard* techniques; but where’s the
fun in that? Where’s the expression, the freedom, the art, the joy?

“The fun comes in the thrill of the hunt, the joy in seeing one’s mark’s
bloody entrails scattered across their exquisite marble floors; there’s
enough material for art after that -”

“Come now, Walt. No need for such morbid humor.”

“Sorry, sir.”

“Besides the opportunity for creative expression, expansive though our
curriculum is, we have only had a year with you, and you’re bound to
encounter situations sooner or later in which none of the tools that
you’ve mastered will be of any use.”

“Yes sir, but a *bucket* of all things -”

“If we don’t set hard homework, how will we know your true potential? If
we don’t push you, how do we test your balance? No more arguments - I
want you to create and I want you to create well. You have seven days.”

“You *could* just have us stand on one leg.”

\*\*\*

“The Earl of Shadworth is a creature of *exacting* habit. He also
happens to believe that the only way to enter a room on the seventh
floor of a house is through the house itself.”

“As any sane man would.”

“Ah, but like many sane but ultimately thickheaded men, he often forgets
about the *windows*.”

“So that’s why you’ve brought the rope and harnesses?”

“Did you think we were heading out for a soiree?”

“And I thought we weren’t allowed to work with each other for this
assignment!”

“Yes, yes, but the Headmaster said to be creative, so I’m sure he won’t
mind me interpreting his rules to my liking.”

“Walt, I don’t quite think that’s what he meant.”

“Besides, I need a spotter. I need to climb this wall, and I am *not*
doing it without your help. I want to graduate, not die, and being
expelled is most certainly not worse than being killed.”

“Fine, but if I die, I’m haunting you for the rest of your life - or
afterlife.”

“Just for that, you can go first.”

\*\*\*

“What do you mean *no poison*?”

“Lad, I think those words are fairly self explanatory.”

“But I used the bucket and everything! I snuck into the Earl’s home,
climbed seven marbled stories, which are a *lot* taller and slipperier
than they look, and killed him fair and square! And without entrails!”

“Yes, but it’s the poison that truly did the work, no? Besides, propping
a bucket of goop above a slightly ajar door is such a cliche, and
juvenile to boot.”

“But it worked, right? I recorded the Earl’s movements, saw that he
always let his guard down when entering his bathroom, and executed on my
plan perfectly. This was a flawless assassination in every way!”

“Except in that it wasn’t good enough to satisfy me. You’re going to
have to try again. And try to come up with something original this time.
Aesthetics, Walt. That’s what separates memorable assassins from the
merely mediocre.”

“Yes sir.”

“Good man. Now, the Earl will be up and functioning tomorrow -”

“Yes sir, I know, the Earl isn’t really human and is just a really
enchanted training dummy, I have learnt everything you taught us this
year. Learnt it well, in fact.”

“Good. Now run along!”

\*\*\*

“Why do you have a bucket on the seat next to you?”

“Long story. I don’t want to talk about it.”

“Walt, you do realize we’re in a five star restaurant in the courtyard
of one of the largest castles in Wensley, right? On what you promised
would be a ‘posh, fancy, chic’ date?”

“Don’t remind me.”

“Of what, that we’re on a date?”

“Let’s just order, shall we? Waiter!”

“It’s disturbingly red. You’re getting rust all over the upholstery.”

“It’s red velvet anyways, nobody will notice.”

“At least not until they get infected and start spasming over their
dinners. Awfully distressing, that’d be.”

“Lindsey, that’s not how tetanus - can we just stop talking about the
blasted bucket?”

“Fine, but *why* is it here? And does it have to be so unsanitary?”

“Stupid college final assignment.”

“Walt, you’re here for work? I thought this would be some me and you
time! You’ve been so busy the past year, all you’ve been thinking about
is knife this, bloodstain that, poison this, rifle that. We’ve barely
*spoken* for the last two weeks!”

“I’m as upset about it as you are, but it is what it is. This version of
the Earl has much better security at home, so I had to track his
movements outside, try to catch his guards in an inattentive moment. And
I need a strong alibi and cover, so if you wouldn’t mind...?”

“Stop smiling like that, you know at this point I’m only with you
because of your dashing good looks.”

“And the brains have nothing to do with it.”

“Quite frankly, no. There’s a *bucket* sitting next to you on our date,
if that needs to be repeated.”

“Yes, well, cover for me, and I promise that I’ll kick the Headmaster in
the -”

“Walt!”

“I mean, I’ll respectfully hand in my assignment to the Headmaster, and
then we can spend the rest of that week dreamily in love, or whatever it
is that young couples do.”

“I guess that’ll do for me. Yes, waiter, I’d like one order of today’s
special.”

“And I’ll have -”

“He’ll have the mutton curry. With extra spice. You know, red meat, with
all those red spices, to match the red sofas, and that delightful rusty
bucket by his side.”

“Lindsey!”

“Fine, fine. Get him some extra water too. He’s going to need it.”

\*\*\*

“*No bludgeoning*?”

“That is the most brutish, unoriginal, crude, and disturbing way to
murder somebody that I’ve seen yet.”

“Unoriginal? Did you see the poem that I wrote with the Earl’s blood?
How is *that* unoriginal?”

“Walt, what have I said about the morbid humor? And besides, that has
nothing to do with the bucket. I asked you for creativity, for
aesthetics, and you give me the brutest of brute force in return.”

“Sir, but it *worked*, didn’t it? Planning, execution, raw skill,
training, that’s what we need, isn’t it? Why reinvent the wheel, why
reach outside the box when there’s plenty of space *inside* the box to
work with?”

“It may have worked, but that was not the assignment. You needed to
assassinate the Earl, and you needed to do it *creatively*. You just
bludgeoned him to death.”

“Yes, but not with a bludgeon, right? Buckets weren’t intended for
bludgeoning, so that’s creativity, right?

“Walt, I’m giving you one more chance. If you want to graduate, complete
your assignment *well*, to my satisfaction.”

“Fine, sir.”

“And do pick up another bucket on your way out. I imagine that your
previous one isn’t in workable condition.”

\*\*\*

“That’ll be five hundred silver chips, sir.”

“Thank you my good man. And here’s another two hundred for speed - and
discretion.”

“My Lord’s too kind. Mum’s the word on this one. Say, why do you want
this job done, anyway? Bit of a strange request, to forge an old bucket
into shivs.”

“Long story. Long, *annoying* story.”

“Ah, are you also in that school of assassineering, or whatever it’s
called?”

“I believe the proper term is *assassinry*. And yes, how did you know?”

“My daughter went there a year ago, and she kept screaming about some
bucket near the end of it. Thought she’d gone barmy, but now I see it’s
just school.”

“No, sir, trust me, we’re all barmy at the end of it.”

“So sir, pardon, but is this some metalworking project that you’re
cheating on? Turn the oldest thing at your house into weapons? My
daughter did a lot of metalwork at that school, she did. Made a lot of
knives, shuriken, even a crossbow. Didn’t cheat once, though, not even
with her father being the best blacksmith in town!”

“Sir, I would never cheat! Lie, steal, murder, and backstab, yes, but
never cheat!”

“Well, what is this, if not metalwork?”

“Some stupid idea that the Headmaster has about us being creative with a
bucket.”

“And your creative use for a bucket is to turn it into knives.”

“Exactly.”

“The same kind of knives that you and your mates have spent the entire
year with, which your Headmaster must be getting mighty bored of by
now.”

“Just get in your forge and smelt, sir.”

\*\*\*

“Walt, I am astounded.”

“You *are*? I mean, of course you are, what other student has handed in
*three *perfect final assignments in one year?”

“I am simply amazed - at your insistence on producing derivative,
lifeless, and unoriginal work.”

“Lifeless? You want my mark to be alive after I’m done killing them?”

“Walt, stabbing someone to death is *not* creative. Thousands of
assassins around the world do it every day.”

“Yes, but I bet that no other student has thought of using the bucket
like this before, right? How many other budding assassins submitted
*bucket-shivs* for their final project?”

“I wonder why nobody has thought of this yet, considering that your
‘bucket-shivs’ constitute the worst submission that I have had the
misfortune to evaluate in all my years at this academy.”

“But *sir*! I used the bucket and everything! The bucket is literally
*inside* the Earl right now!”

“Walt, nothing you say can convince me that any of your submissions were
artistic and exemplified the creativity of an assassin that has mastered
his art.”

“Sir -”

“You are an expert at being thrown out of the box - and jumping right
back in. And for that - just take the damn degree.”

“What?”

“Take the degree and go. Scram. Vamoose. Get out of my sight. I don’t
want to see you nor your tenaciously formulaic hide in this castle
again.”

“Thank you sir! To show you my gratitude, my first murder will be with a
leftover bucket-shiv - you know, a simple, standard backstabbing, like
we learnt about in week two, unoriginal, typical -”

“Out!”
