# Act 1

## Scene 1

London. *A street (Privet Drive)*

*Enter* cat

*Enter* ALBUS DUMBLEDORE*, rummaging in cloak*

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE *\[to cat\]*

Tis most strange to spy thee here, Professor McGonagall.

*Cat transforms into* MINERVA MCGONAGALL

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

How did thou know my true self?

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Never have I espied a feline with posture so stiff, dear Professor.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

Thou should also be stiff, if thou had rested on brick for the day.

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

What, the day? When celebrations hath occurred through the alleys of
grand London? On my route, I could have found no less than six sixes
worth rooms, with food o’erflowing, men standing in wait to gormandize,
to fill their mouths with fine delicacies.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

Yes, celebration hath scour’d London. Those Muggles, too, hath noticed.
Their newspapers and televisions hath proclaim’d the news. They hath
seen birds of the night flock in hundreds during the time when sun hath
won over the sky. They hath seen the stars themselves fall upon the land
of Gaia. Those Muggles, they aren’t fools all.

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Refrain, do not cast a plague on our race. They have had but less to
dote on, than the mother who hath lost her dears to the plague.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

Yes, yes, but in midst of these celebrations, care hath been forgotten.
Heads are being lost. The extent of inattention, goest so far as to
compass wearing of the good robes of our tribe, against the Muggle
clothes, which aid in keeping our secret. T’would be fine, if on the
very day Thou-Knowest-Who has escap’d himself from our land, that the
Muggles are discover’d of our nature. Has he, in faith, been banish’d?

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Tis what aspect would tell us. We have much to thank. Would thou care
for a lemon drop?

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

What?

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

A lemon drop. The Muggles hath made these sweets, and, in sooth, they be
enjoyable.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

No, if it pleaseth thee. I say, though if Thou-Knowest-Who hast indeed
vanish’d –

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Dear Professor, surely one so quaint as thee shall have no pains in
referring to him by his self taken name? For such long eleven years have
I tried to coerce the populace into calling him by his proper name:
Voldemort. Tis all in confusions if we continue to utter
‘Thou-Knowest-Who’. I have not spied reason to take fright at that name.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

Tis known to me you have not. But ye be strange. Tis known to all that
thou art the only mage of our kind to evoke fear in the heartless soul
of Thou-Knowest-Who – all right – Voldemort.

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Thou flatter me. The wizard Voldemort, he hath had powers of a mightful
kind, powers the likes of I never can possess.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

Tis only because a mind willing thee to make use of them is not thine.
Ye be too noble.

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Why, I be most fortunate for the dark. My cheeks have not burned such
fervently since Madam Pomfrey possess’d me that the earmuffs that I
bought with much deliberations were pleasing to her.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL *(with a sharp look)*

The gatherings of night birds doth be nothing against the incredible
stories which do rounds on broomsticks which o’erspeed the Nimbus 2000.
Art thou possess’d with the people’s talk? To the thing that banish’d
one with such fearful complexion? They be saying that, in the dark of
the night following the previous morrow, Voldemort hath went himself to
Godric’s Hollow, with aim to find the noble House Potter. They be saying
that – Lily and James Potter have embrac’d Death … is that any thing
now?

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE *(bows his head)*

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

O poor Lily! O noble James! Tis simply not believable … tis not in my
mind to believe … O Albus!

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

I know … I know …

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

But tis not all. Tis said he took pains to fell the son of noble House
Potter, by name Harry. But some god above us put his hand, to save the
younker. He, one of such fearful aspect and powers unimagin’d, was
fail’d in the slaying of a boy not more than an infant! Tis unknown to
even the most wise scholars in the land how such an occurrence could
occur, but tis said that, when the beast shot his green spell, the
beast’s selfsame mightful powers shatter’d and with them, the monster
was fell’d.

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE *(nodding)*

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

Tis a thing? He hath done too much, slay’d too many … he could not fell
a younker of minute size? Tis most unbelievable, to banish him our tribe
hath tried all, yet how he was fell’d … how by heaven and the Lord did
Harry stay unkill’d?

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

To only guess is our place, with all the wisdom in our meager hearts,
but to know, may not come so long as we live.

*(pause)*

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Hagrid hath out-dwelled his hour. Tis my thought that ‘twas he who
possess’d thee that I would be watching hither?

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

True. ‘Twould be too much to presume that thou planneth to discover to
me why thou be’st here, in this place of all places?

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

To present the lad to his aunt and uncle is thy ask’d reason. To Harry
they be the only family left.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

What, these people? The people of that dwelling yonder? Dumbledore – tis
impossible of thee. I have been spying them through the day. A man and
woman more strange did not exist – they be terrible! They are possess’d
of a son – I saw him thrusting his own mother up the alleyway over
yonder, screeching his throat for sweets! Noble Harry Potter, live here?

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Tis the best place for him. His relations shall discover to him all,
when he comes of a slight older age. I have writ to them a letter.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

What, a letter? Dumbledore, to bethink that tis all explainable in a
meager letter is fool of thee. To be understood by them shall be never
the lad’s fate. Ossa shall be his closest friend, history shall mark him
– ‘twould be unsurprising to discover that, this day, some years hence,
shall be call’d ‘Harry Potter Day’ – on him books shall be writ – all
younkers in our tribe shall know his fam’d name!

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Forsooth, and, canst thou perceive, the brilliance of cordoning the boy,
to raise him without strange men and women who wring his hand, who laud
him, bestow upon him the laurels, when the lad knows not about the
circumstances beshrouding his fame? Canst thou perceive that to age with
not all that fudge, shalt be only of good?

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

Yes – ye be right, but has the boy’s route been watch’d after? Who shall
escort him to his new shrine?

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Hagrid shall bring him.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

Would it be – prudent – to betrust Hagrid with a task monumentous such
like this?

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Given occasion, Hagrid’s large hands may safely enshrine my very life.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

His heart be, forsooth, in the proper place, but careless he also be.
Tends he to – what was that sound over yonder?

*Enter* HAGRID *on his motorcycle*

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Hagrid, tis been a long watch. From whence did thou get thy motorcycle?

HAGRID

Borrowed it, Professor Dumbledore, sir. Young Sirius Black lent it to
me. I’ve got him, sir.

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Tis my hope that no tricks rear’d their heads?

HAGRID

No sir – house was almost destroyed, but I got him out all right before
the Muggles started swarmin’ around. He fell asleep as we was flyin’
over Bristol.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

Would it that be the part –

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Yes. That scar shall with him live on.

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

‘Twould be possible of thee, could thy not prepare some thing for that
curst ailment?

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

I cannot, but natheless, shall not. Scars may, in sooth, help thee in
thy momentous times. I do keep to me one, tis atop my left knee. An
exact map of the London underground it be. Hagrid, to me bequeath the
lad – tis well to finish our plann’d path here.

HAGRID

Could I – could I say good-bye to him sir? *(howls)*

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

Fie, fie! Thou shalt wake the dead and Muggles with thy wolf scream!

HAGRID

S-s-sorry. But I c-c-can’t stand it – Lily an’ James dead – an’ poor
little Harry off ter live with Muggles –

MINERVA MCGONAGALL

Yes, yes, tis all worthy of rising waters, but keep thyself to thyself,
else we be discover’d.

Dumbledore lays Harry on the Dursleys’ doorstep

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

That be that. Tis not of us to watch us here. ‘Twere that we should join
the merriments.

HAGRID

Yeah. I’d best get this bike away. G’night, Professor McGonagall –
Professor Dumbledore, sir.

\[Exit HAGRID on his motorcycle\]

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

Tis my hope and thought that mine eyes be seeing thee soon, Professor
McGonagall.

\[*Exit* MINERVA MGCONAGALL*, sobbing*\]

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

May Fortuna dote on thee, Harry.

\[*Exeunt*\]

# Act 2

## Scene 1

Number 4, Privet Drive

The Cupboard under the Stairs

PETUNIA DURSLEY

Waken! Waken anon, boy! Awaken!

(HARRY wakes up with a start)

PETUNIA DURSLEY

Art thine eyes full open?

HARRY

Ay, mostly.

PETUNIA DURSLEY

Why, get thy feet up, thy hands to thy work! Thy sleepy eyes thou must
point to that fervent bacon on yonder stove. And not in thy wildest
dreams shalt thou let it burn. Marry, Duddy’s birthday shall be not one
step below that path to perfection.

(HARRY groans)

PETUNIA DURSLEY

What didst thou speak?

HARRY

Nay, tis nothing, nothing …

(HARRY gets out of bed and rummages around for his socks)

(HARRY walks to the kitchen, where the table is completely covered by
Dudley’s presents)

(Enter VERNON DURSLEY)

VERNON DURSLEY

Like a bird’s shabby nest doth thy hair be! Hath thee a comb? Marry,
peruse of it anon, lad!

(Enter DUDLEY DURSLEY, while HARRY fries eggs on the stove)

DUDLEY DURSLEY

Thirty-six. Two under last year, this tally be.

PETUNIA DURSLEY

Dear, thine aunt Marge’s presentation thou hast not taken into count.
Beneath this magnificent one from Mommy and Daddy it be.

DUDLEY DURSLEY

Still that be’st thirty seven!

PETUNIA DURSLEY

And today, while out making merry for thy day of birth, we shall buy and
possess thee of two more. How doth be that, popkin? Two more, would that
appease thee?

DUDLEY DURSLEY

The final tally taking the aforementioned two withal … ‘twould be ...
‘twould be thirty …

PETUNIA DURSLEY

Thirty nine, sweetums.

DUDLEY DURSLEY

Oh. ‘Twould be all fine, then.

VERNON DURSLEY (with a chuckle)

The younker be not a scrooge, nor be’st he something too prodigal! Just
like his father he be’st!

(Telephone rings, PETUNIA DURSLEY goes to answer it)

PETUNIA DURSLEY (after answering the phone)

Vernon, tis tough new to break with. Mrs. Figg hath broke her leg; she
can’t relieve us of the boy. Now, what would we?

VERNON DURSLEY

We could inform Marge and have her be possess’d of the boy.

PETUNIA DURSLEY

‘Twere foolishness; she looks to him loathly.

VERNON DURSLEY

What about thy companion, Yvonne?

PETUNIA DURSLEY

In Majorca she be, off making merry.

HARRY POTTER

Thou could’st let me here.

PETUNIA DURSLEY

What, leave thee here? Tis monstrous in my regard, what we should find
when we return if thou stayeth here. ‘Twould be ruins, ruined to more
exaction than the Coliseum, defaced further than the Kamiros! Must that
thou not stay here, lest the house emit ultimate groans of its lost
mortality.

HARRY POTTER

I would not destroy.

PETUNIA DURSLEY

‘Twould be barely possible … we could journey to the animal house … and
in the car detach of the boy …

VERNON DURSLEY

The car be’st new; he shalt not be let by his self.

(DUDLEY DURSLEY cries)

PETUNIA DURSLEY

Dinky Diddydums, do not raise thy waters, thy Mummy shalt not let that
brainsickly fool scar thine own day!

DUDLEY DURSLEY

I … do not … wish … him … to c-c-come! Under him, ‘twill all rot! ‘twill
all go to hell!
