---
title:
---
Lissa was terrified of falling. How could she not be, when there was
*literal nothingness* below her as far as she could see?

“This is stupid,” she muttered. She stood on a thin rectangle of rock
barely large enough to be called a platform, wisps of rock dust swirling
around her. Underneath her was emptiness. Space, broken only by chunks
of stone floating gently through the void.

The stones had it easy; *they* just had to drift along to wherever it
was they were going. *She*, on the other hand, was very much bound by
the laws of gravity.

She stood facing her island, which was scarily far in front of her.
Definitely too far for her to jump back. No, if she wanted to get back,
she’d have to do it with her Shatterweaving.

“Next step, Miss Atrai!” called Master Liv from the island. Lissa let
out a stiff sigh, and focused on the dust surrounding her. Slowly, the
particles began drifting towards her feet, forming the outline of a thin
stone square, like the one that she was standing on.

This exercise was standard Shatterweaving practice for Level Three
schoolkids, thirteen years of age. They were given a pouch of rock dust,
placed on a platform above the nothingness by their Master, and left to
get back by willing the dust into the shape of platforms, then Freezing
them in place. The issue: it took a *lot *of focus for kids of her
training level to maintain even one platform like this, let alone the
two that she would need to make forward progress while not falling.

Countless other islands stood in the distance, and some even floated
above her. Most were only large enough to have one or two families live
on it. Some had a few more, and the biggest were dedicated to facilities
like schools, hospitals, and libraries. There were islands below her as
well, but they were further away, and she really didn’t want to look
down just then.

“All right, Miss Atrai, now Freeze the dust!” said Master Liv. The dust
glowed a gentle silver as Lissa began Freezing the dust in place.
Freezing was one of the five branches of Shatterweaving, and it allowed
one to slow down or even entirely stop objects’ motion, irrespective of
any forces that may act on it. Nobody knew quite how this worked; they
just knew that it did, and that it was vitally useful. Indeed, there
would have been no way for people to travel between islands if not for
Shatterweaving, and most islands didn’t have the room or raw materials
necessary to support human life.

Lissa stood, fists clenched, as the silver aura brightened, flickering
with specks of grey and brown. Feeling the platform under her feet start
to sink as its Freezing weakened, Lissa heart thudded as she shifted her
attention to reinforcing the magic holding the platform steady. She
(purportedly) wouldn’t seriously get hurt even if she fell; there were
other Masters waiting out of sight, in a small niche on the side of the
island, ready to catch her with a platform of their own if she fell.
They were much more experienced than she, capable of maneuvering their
magic so that their platform moved with her at first, then gradually
slowed down, so that she didn’t feel as much of an impact.

Even so, she’d asked Master Liv after school one day how in the name of
the Silver Domain they’d managed to convince parents that this was a
sane idea. Master Liv had smirked and said that education boards had had
to compromise heavily on their original idea of doing this to Level
*One* schoolkids. Lissa had thrown up her hands and left the classroom
at that point.

There was, however, a point to this exercise and the near-paralyzing
fear that she felt. Shatterweaving dust into platforms was how everyone
travelled from island to island, so it was critical that performing this
task under pressurizing conditions, became as natural as walking on
solid land. Especially if she wanted to join the Silver Guard when she
was older: she’d have to *run* in the space between islands then.

The glow around her work faded. In front of her floated a slim, solid
square of compacted rock dust, slightly smaller than the one she stood
on. She gingerly stepped on it, shifting all of her weight onto it when
she saw that the platform held. She relaxed her mental hold on the
platform she had just stepped off of, and the platform crumbled into a
large cloud of the coarse dust that it was created from.

Before the dust could drift away in whatever ethereal winds blew in the
spaces between islands, Lissa caught the cloud with her magic, and began
Weaving it into thin ribbon-like tendrils. Large and sparse entities,
like clouds, tended to be harder to control than smaller, denser ones,
so Weavers usually split clouds of dust into multiple smaller clouds or
tendrils to maneuver them. Lissa found this strange, since she reasoned
that it was the same quantity of dust either way, but everyone else
seemed to accept this occurrence as some arcane quirk of the forces of
the universe.

“Good job, Miss Atrai,” Master Liv called out from the island. “Now,
next step, please.”

Lissa ignored him; her platform had already begun to sink. She
stabilized it, then focused on getting back to solid land in one piece.

\*\*\*

Maten watched Lissa from the island, along with around ten of the other
Level Three students from their school. Each of them had to take a turn,
and since each run took about ten minutes, their grade was taken to the
edge of the island in smaller groups for this exercise.

He’d already gone, and his run passed without incident. Master Liv had
clapped him on the back and said that his control and stability were
better than most of his Level Five students. Maten had muttered his
thanks, and went to stand at the edge of the group of students, next to
Harl. Harl shook Maten’s hand by way of congratulation, and the two had
turned to watch as Master Liv gave the next student her pouch of rock
dust, said a few final words of instruction and encouragement, and began
escorting her to the trial’s initial platform.

More experienced Shatterweavers wouldn’t need a pouch of dust in order
to make platforms like these; they could just use the dust that floated
through space around them. The most practiced Weavers made it look like
stone discs materialized under their feet from nothing. However, one
needed to be efficient in order to make a platform that held with such
little dust. The mental exertion involved in Freezing became
significantly higher the less dust that was used.

Maten was nowhere near that level of skill yet, though when nobody was
around, he had tried to materialize cubes of stone in his palm as
quickly as he could snap his fingers. He’d gotten nothing, of course,
but a slight twitch of the dirt at his feet. He’d expected that, but
wanted more. It wasn’t that he was impatient; just that he needed to be
good at what he did. And good was such a subjective term, that the only
way to truly be certain that you were good at a field was for there to
be no achievement humanly possible in that field that you couldn’t do.

Harl elbowed Maten as the next student was taken to the starting
platform by Master Liv. Maten looked up at Harl, annoyed, and then
towards the platform, to see Lissa staring at her pouch of rock with a
mixture of fear and exasperation on her face. Maten tensed slightly.

“Stop that,” Maten murmured to Harl. Harl just chuckled and looked back
out at Lissa.

Maten crossed his arms over his chest and watched the trial. She looked
more terrified than he would have liked. Even he had to admit that an
exercise as potentially dangerous as this one was premature for Level
Three kids, even some of the most precocious ones in their city of
islands. Yes, there had never been an... *incident *yet, even with an
average of two kids per ten falling on their first few attempts, but
what if the Masters ready to catch Lissa missed with their platform? If
she was lucky, she’d hit an island and pass quickly. If not, well,
nobody knew what was below all of the islands, if anything.

Dust slowly coalesced at her feet, glowing a faint silver speckled with
shades of earthy brown. Tiny chunks of rock meandered and twisted around
her, contrasting her utterly still hair. Maten saw the platform that she
was standing on dip as the silver glow intensified, and stiffened again.

Lissa stabilized the platform, finished Freezing her next one, and
gently stepped onto it. Maten relaxed when the platform held. She’d have
eight or so more to go to get back to the island.

An unusually fast-moving piece of rock caught Maten’s eye as it passed
under Lissa’s platforms, towards the underside of the island. The word
that he’d use to describe the pace of most of the rocks was ‘lazy’; this
one almost looked urgent.

“Doing well so far,” Maten whispered to Harl, who nodded. Lissa was
halfway back to safety, and she chanced a glance at the island to judge
how much further she had left. She stepped on her next platform.

Her foot fell through.

Maten ran to the edge of the island. Lissa’s arms flailed, trying to
find purchase on one of her platforms, but as soon as she had started
falling, both of her Freezings had dissolved, and her platforms had
disintegrated into puffs of dust. He watched her fall, trying
desperately to think if there was something he could -

A wide, arched slab of stone shot out from under the island, towards
Lissa. The Masters, moving the hand-like slab underneath Lissa. Maten
watched the platform closely as it travelled unerringly towards Lissa.
*The Masters haven’t yet missed, *he told himself.

Suddenly, the slab wavered. It reached Lissa slightly off center, and
she landed on its edge. She teetered there for a moment, like a ball
dancing on the rim of a hoop.

The slab tilted, like a boat about to capsize. And Lissa fell.

Maten froze in his position at the edge of the island, eyes wide and
fists clenched. He barely heard the students gasp around him.

Four armored figures shot out from underneath the island, running
downwards on seemingly nothing. The curved slab poofed into a cloud of
dust and reformed into hundreds of dancing tendrils of sand, snaking
towards Lissa’s falling form. The tendrils twisted in a cylinder around
her as the Masters fell with her, and solidified in a flash of silver.
The tube decelerated as it levelled out, and dust rushed into one of the
ends, capping the cylinder next to her feet.

The Masters slowed down, summoning platforms under them much as they
created the bottle holding Lissa. Hovering in a circle around her, they
began lifting her back up to the island.

Master Liv let out a shaky breath. He turned to face the rest of the
group.

“The Masters have caught her, she’ll be fine,” he said. It didn’t seem
to soothe any of the watching students, especially the ones who hadn’t
yet done their runs; they were all still white as limestone.

Maten watched the cylinder intently as the Masters guided it back to the
island. This time, it reached its target without incident; it rotated
and landed cap down well away from the island’s edge. The cylinder
dissolved, and Lissa fell to the ground on her hands and knees,
breathing heavily, coughing on the dust surrounding her. The Masters
hurriedly pushed the dust away from her with their Weaving, and one of
them ran to the nearest building to get her a cup of water.

As the rest of the group ran up to Lissa, Master Liv put a hand on
Maten’s shoulder.

“Best move away from the edge, lad,” he said. “You’re standing a little
too close for comfort.”

Maten nodded numbly, and took a step forward. Master Liv glanced at
Maten again, and walked towards Lissa.

How fragile life was, how powerless he was to alter fate. Teachers
showered praise on his sharpness of mind in the classroom; a minute ago,
he might as well have been one of the islands, frozen, unmoving,
unthinking.

For all his accolades and achievements, when push came to shove, he was
unable to protect those that needed it.

\*\*\*

Maten sat, back hunched, legs dangling off the edge of his home’s
island. He lived on an island that was bigger than average, housing five
families instead of the usual one or two. He focused on the space in
front of him. A small pebble, barely half the size of a button,
materialized off the edge of the island, carried gently by unseen winds.

It wasn’t much, but it was an improvement from when he’d started
practicing two hours ago. More improvement than most made in two months.
Of course, what did that matter?

Maten flicked his pebble-button away with his index finger, and focused
again. A moment later, another pebble popped into existence in front of
him. This one was much smaller; that half-button had been the biggest
one he’d managed yet.

“Wow, that’s some skill,” a voice said behind him. Maten turned. It was
Lissa.

“Hi, Lissa,” he said, turning back towards space. He concentrated.
Another speck of a rock formed in front of him. He flicked it away.

The gravel crunched under Lissa’s feet as she stepped to Maten’s side
and sat down gingerly, legs crossed. After a moment, she straightened
her feet in front of her, then let her legs hang off the edge of the
island.

Maten glanced at her legs, then flicked away his latest pebble. Another
one materialized. He flicked it away.

Neither of them spoke for another six pebbles. As he flicked away the
seventh pebble, he asked, “What brings you to this island?”

“A friend lives here, Maira? I’m sure you know her,” she responded.

Maten nodded. Pebble eight flew into space.

“How are you doing that?” Lissa asked. “I’ve tried a few times, but I
can’t even get something the size of a needletip.”

Maten shrugged, and adjusted his perch on the edge. “I just, I don’t
really know, I read the books, come here, try for hours.” He shifted
again. “Sorry,” he said.

Lissa shook her head softly.

“How are you?” Maten asked.

“I’m... okay,” she said. “I mean, for a few moments, I thought I was
gone*. *Not even dead, you know? *Gone. *I don’t know how adults think
it’s responsible to put kids out there, even if they do have Masters
watching us.”

Maten glanced at Lissa. She was staring determinedly at Maten’s pebbles.

“I still want to learn, though,” she said. “It’s scary, and I might want
to sit out the next few times we do this. But I still want to learn.
*Have* to learn.”

Maten nodded in affirmation. “For what it’s worth, I’m glad you’re
okay,” he said.

“Thanks, Maten.”

“And I’m sorry that that happened.”

“Sorry?”

“I mean, I just froze, watching you fall.” Maten flicked away pebble
fourteen. “I should have been able to do something,” he whispered.

Both of them were silent. “Maten, it’s sweet that you care, but we’re
only Level Three. You too. There was nothing that you could have done.”

He shrugged. “Perhaps.”

Lissa chuckled.

“I’d love to learn that sometime,” she said.

“Learn what?”

“The pebbles. They’re very cool.”

“Yeah,” Maten replied.

Lissa chuckled softly.

“I should go,” she said a minute later. “My mother’s coming to pick me
up, take me back to my island.”

“Right. Nice seeing you, Lissa,” Maten said.

Lissa got to her feet and brushed the gravel off of her skirt.

“Bye, Maten,” she said.

“Bye.”

Lissa’s footsteps crunched against the pebbles, the sounds changing to
duller, softer thumps as the ground shifted to a dirt path.

Maten stood. “Lissa,” he called.

Lissa turned. “Yes?” she asked.

“Mind if I join? I’ll walk you back, say hello to Maira, then head
home.”

“Sure,” she smiled.

The two of them walked back towards the small cluster of houses at the
center of the island, talking softly about school, and pebbles, and
Weaving, as the day’s light faded, and night descended.
